Do you prefer coffee or tea?
Do you prefer ice-cream or cheesecake?
Do you prefer cycling or jogging?
Do you prefer watching comedies or science fiction?
Do you prefer travelling or staying at home?
Do you prefer taking photos or drawing?
Do you prefer dancing or singing?
Do you prefer doing homework or doing yoga?
Do you prefer waking up early or late?
Do you prefer reading the news or watching it?
Do you prefer movies about love or about adventures?
Do you prefer history books or fiction?
Do you prefer green tea or black tea?
Do you prefer going shopping or staying at home?
Do you prefer playing tennis or watching it?
Do you prefer visiting friends or parents?
Do you prefer telling stories or listening to them?
Do you prefer eating out or eating at home?
Do you prefer skiing or skating?
Do you prefer reading books or surfing the net?
Do you prefer visiting friends or parents?
Do you prefer movies about love or about adventures?
Do you prefer going shopping or staying at home?
Do you prefer dancing or singing?
Do you prefer waking up early or late?
We prefer Paris (to Voronezh)
We prefer vegetables (to fast food)
We prefer movies (to TV series)
We prefer playing (to working)
We prefer fast food (to healthy food)
We prefer cheese (to ham)
We prefer candies (to porridge)
We prefer cycling (to walking)
We prefer these movies (to those)
We prefer reading about adventures (to politics)
We prefer wine (to vodka)
We prefer chicken (to fish)
We prefer joking (to crying)
We prefer cats (to dogs)
We prefer doing sports (to doing yoga)
We prefer thrillers (to dramas)
We prefer jogging (to working out)
We prefer riding a horse (to riding a motorbike)
We prefer surfing the internet (to sleeping)
We prefer cheeseburgers (to soup)
We prefer thrillers (to dramas)
We prefer joking (to crying)
We prefer cats (to dogs)
We prefer cycling (to walking)
We prefer reading about adventures (to politics)
There is coffee in the photo
There is a girl in the photo
There is a park in the photo
There is a flower in the photo
There is water in the photo
There is a boy in the photo
There is a family in the photo
There is a lamp in the picture
There is a wall in the picture
There is a car in the photo
There is friendship in the photo
There is a house in the photo
There is tea in the photo
There is paper in the picture
There is a kitten in the photo
There is a city in the photo
There is a girl in the picture
There is bread in the photo
There is understanding in the picture
There is cheese in the photo
There is a city in the photo
There is a puppy in the photo
There is a house in the picture
There is a boy in the photo
There is a family in the photo
There are only girls in the park
There are many families in the park
There are a lot of people in the park
There are memorials in the park
There are flowers in the park
There are ponds in the park
There are fountains in the park
There are birds in the park
There are trees in the park
There are benches in the park
There are clubs in the city
There are libraries in the city
There are theatres in the city
There are universities in the city
There are parks in the city
There are shopping-malls in the city
There are hospitals in the city
There are kindergartens in the city
There are a lot of people in the city
There are many cars in the city
There are universities in the city
There are theatres in the city
There are kindergartens in the city
There are fountains in the park
There are memorials in the park