I remember going to the British Museum one day to read up the treatment for some slight disease.
I read all I had come to read, and then without realizing what I was doing I turned the leaves and began to study diseases generally.
I forgot which was the first disease I read about, but before I looked through the list of the symptoms I felt I had it.
I kept on reading, feeling more and more nervous, and came to the conclusion that I was suffering from every disease imaginable.
I felt miserable.
I tried to examine myself.
I tried to feel my pulse but discovered that I had no pulse.
I tried to listen to my heart but I couldn't listen to my heart: it had stopped beating.
I stuck out my tongue.
I shut one eye and tried to examine it with the other.
I could see only the tip, but I no longer doubted that on top of everything else I had scarlet fever.
It became clear to me that I would never get rid of the thousand diseases I had and would never recover.
I had walked into the library a happy healthy man.
I walked out an invalid.
Though I doubted if anyone would be able to cure me of my diseases, I decided to consult my doctor.
I always turn to him for advice and help.
I love and respect him.
He is a nice fellow and an old friend of mine.
I needn't make an appointment6 with him, he is always ready to receive me.
He listens to my complaints when feel ill, talks with me about the weather and about life in general, and all for nothing.
He never remains indifferent to what I say
He always does his best to calm and encourage me.
Besides I thought that I should do him a favor if I went to him.
The main thing a doctor needs I said to myself, 'is practice.
He will get more practice out of me than out of a hundred ordinary patients with only one common disease each.'
When I came to see my doctor, I did not try to conceal that I was nervous.
I did not pretend to be calm.
It was only natural that I was worried: my whole life depended on what he would say.
'Well, what's the matter with you?' he asked cheerfully.
'Practically everything.
My life is in danger.
As a matter of fact I'm dying.'
And I told him how I had discovered it.
He examined me thoroughly, and then wrote out a prescription.
He folded it and handed it to me without saying a word.
I hurried to the nearest pharmacy and gave the prescription to the chemist.
The chemist read the prescription and handed it back.
He apologised for not being able to oblige me as he did not keep a hotel, but a chemist's shop.
I did not see the joke.
'Aren't you a chemist?'
I asked very much annoyed.
He didn't deny it.
'Yes, he said,
'I'm only a chemist.'
I read the prescription.
It said:
'1 beefsteak.
1 pt beer,
1 apple every day.
1 ten-mile walk every morning.
1 bed at eleven sharp every night.
And don't stuff your head with things you don't understand.'
I felt very much relieved.
My life was saved.
I was out of danger.
I did not keep the prescription
I tore it up and threw it away-but I followed the instructions to the letter.
As a result of it my health improved.
I feel fine and take things easy.
In a word, I enjoy life.
I'm very grateful to my doctor.
But though I appreciate his sense of humor, I never tell anyone about that incident.