James, Mr Knox's servant, heard the front door bell ring and hurried downstairs.
It was Doctor Caswell.
James started complaining to the doctor as usual.
'I can't do a thing with him.
He won't do what you insist on.
I can't persuade him to take his medicine.
He doesn't want me to read to him.
He doesn't allow me to turn on the TV set. He says he hates TV.
He doesn't like anything.'
Doctor Caswell took the information calmly.
He was used to all kinds of patients, though Mr Knox was indeed a difficult one. He was not an ordinary case.
The old gentleman's health was pretty good for his age.
The trouble was that Mr Knox was very active, but his financial transactions made him very excited and it was bad for him.
The doctor's task was to keep the patient from doing business, especially to keep him from buying things.
The old man was difficult to deal with.
He was stubborn and disobedient.
He hated it when anybody interfered in his affairs.
'How are you this morning? Feeling better?'
asked the doctor cheerfully, entering the room.
I hear you haven't been obeying my orders.'
'Orders at my time of life!
Am I to ask for permission every time I want to do something?'
grumbled the old man.
The doctor ignored the remark.
He knew it was no use arguing with patients.
He drew up a chair and sat down close to Mr Knox.
'I have a suggestion,' he said.
Old Knox looked at the doctor over his spectacles.
The way Doctor Caswell said it seemed suspicious to the old man.
'What is it this time?' he asked.
'Your tricks again?
Something to make me a complete idler?'
'Nothing of the kind.
I've thought of something different.
I'd like to suggest that you should take up art.
How about drawing?'
'Nonsense!' exclaimed Mr Knox.
'But still,' said the doctor, who was glad that his suggestion was taken calmly enough.
'Of course, I don't mean seriously.
Just try.
Do it out of curiosity.
It'll be great fun.
I know a student from an art school who could start the lessons right away.'
Much to the doctor's surprise the old man agreed.
The young man the doctor had in mind and promised to bring over was a certain Frank Stain.
Like all students he needed money.
Doctor Caswell got in touch with him and the lessons began.
Mr Knox liked the lesson very much.
When James interrupted the lesson saying that his master needed a rest, the old man looked disappointed.
When Frank Stain came the next week, he saw a drawing on the table.
It was a vase.
But something was definitely wrong with it.
Well, what do you think of it?' asked the old man proudly.
'I don't mean to hurt you, sir, but there's one thing I want to draw your attention to — ' began Frank Stain.
'I know. The halves don't match.
I'm not very good at drawing yet.
But drawing turned out to be great fun.
Could you afford the time to come more often?'
They arranged to meet twice a week.
Then Stain's visits grew more frequent.
Doctor Caswell was glad
-he hoped that art had triumphed and business had been forgotten forever.
When spring came, Mr Knox painted a picture which he called 'Trees Dressed in White'.
The picture was awful.
The trees in the picture were not like trees at all.
Mr Knox announced that he was going to display it at the Lathrop Gallery.
Doctor Caswell and James could not believe their ears.
Frank Stain thought that the old man was joking.
The Summer Show at the Lathrop Gallery was quite an occasion.
It was one of the biggest exhibitions of the year.
All outstanding artists in the United States dreamt of winning a Lathrop prize.
James, who was devoted to his master and did not want the old man to be laughed at, insisted that they should do something about it.
We've got to stop him.
It's our duty,'
he said to the doctor.
But the doctor refused to do anything.
We mustn't interfere with his plans now that we've achieved our aim.
We mustn't spoil the good job we've done.
Besides, I can't order him to take the picture back.
Even if I did, he wouldn't listen to me.'
Doctor Caswell and Frank Stain were sure that the gallery would turn down the picture.
But they were astonished to learn that 'Trees Dressed in White' had been accepted for the show.
Especially did it astonish Stain.
On the opening day young Stain went to the exhibition.
He blushed when he saw Mr Knox's masterpiece hanging in the main hall.
As visitors gathered in front of the picture, which looked out of place among the works of professional painters, Stain rushed out.
He was ashamed that a picture like that was displayed at such a famous exhibition.
He did not want to hear how the visitors might comment on the picture.
However the young man did not give up the lessons.
Mr Knox seemed to be delighted with his new hobby.
Every time James entered the room he found his master painting something carefully.
The old man did not mention his picture and was unusually cheerful.
Two days before the close of the exhibition Mr Knox received a letter.
James brought it when both the doctor and the student were at Mr Knox's place.
'Read it to me' asked the old man, putting aside the brush he was holding.
'My eyes are tired from painting.'
Stain took the letter.
The letter said,
'It gives the Lathrop Gallery pleasure to announce that Mr Collis P. Knox has been awarded the First Landscape Prize of ten thousand dollars for his painting 'Trees Dressed in White'.
Frank Stain became dumb with astonishment.
James dropped the glass with orange juice and did not bend to pick up the fragments.
Doctor Caswell managed to keep calm.
'Congratulations, Mr Knox!' said the doctor.
'Fine, fine Frankly, I didn't expect it —
Anyway, I've proved to you that art is much more satisfying than business.'
'Art is nothing.
I bought the Lathrop Gallery,'
snapped out the old man, highly pleased with the effect of his deception.