I'll tell you a strange thing about me:
I never forget a face.
I can pass a fellow in the street and recognize him months after.
There's not a person in Bardfield - man, woman or child-that I don't know by sight.
My memory for faces helps me a lot in business.
The only trouble is that I have a bad memory for names.
My wife complains that I don't know the names of our neighbors and that's true.
Bardfield, where I've lived ever since the war, is only forty miles from London.
On week days quite a crowd of men travel up and down to the city.
I needn't tell you that I know all of them by sight, though I couldn't tell you the names of half of them.
On that particular evening I was returning to Bardfield later than usual I had been delayed at the office and didn't manage to catch the 6.15 train, the one I usually travel by.
The train I took was at first overcrowded, but little by little the passengers got off and by the time we had reached Ellingham - that's two stations before Bardfield- there were only two of us left in the carriage.
The other passenger wasn't one of my regular fellow-travelers but I knew he was a Bardfield man.
I didn't doubt that.
I knew it the moment I saw him get on the train in London.
The face was familiar to me but the annoying thing was that I couldn't place the fellow.
I supposed he must be one of those newcomers who had come recently to live in the houses by the bus stop, but I wasn't sure.
In my work I depend greatly on people.
I'm looking upon them as my future clients.
So I can't afford to neglect anybody.
I'm a good mixer.
My friends Consider me a good conversationalist.
They say that I'm easy and pleasant to talk to as I'm a good listener.
So when the two of us remained alone in the carriage, I started talking to my travelling companion as if we were old friends.
But I can't say that I got much information out of him.
He looked friendly but didn't talk much.
He agreed with all I said but didn't seem to have any opinion of his own.
'Do you often travel on this train?' I asked him.
That's usually a safe opening to a conversation.
They either do travel or not.
But in any case they'll usually tell you why and where they are travelling and what their job is.
But my fellow-traveler just smiled, shook his head and said,
'Not often.'
Still I went on talking and told him a lot about myself.
I even boasted about rather a nice bit of business I'd done that morning.
There's nothing like boasting to make a fellow talk because it makes him talk too.
But it was no good.
The situation was getting awkward.
Well, in short, I gave it up and started reading a newspaper.
My travelling companion put his head back and went to sleep.
He didn't wake up when the train ran into the station and stopped suddenly.
I touched him on the shoulder.
'Wake up, old fellow. We're there.'
'Oh, so we are,' he said smiling and got off the train after me.
It was quite dark when we got out of the station.
The weather was nasty.
It was raining hard and a sharp wind was blowing.
It was bitterly cold.
The village is almost a mile from the station.
Well, what would you have done in my place?
The same thing I did, I'm sure.
I offered to give him a lift.
'There isn't a bus for a quarter of an hour,' I said.
'My car is in the station yard, and
if you live in one of those houses near the bus stop, I can take you there.
It's on my way.'
'It's very kind of you' he said and we walked in the pouring rain to where my car was parked.
We got into the car and started off.
We drove in silence for some time.
When we were half way across the open country, he suddenly turned round and said,
'Let me get out here.'
'WHAT? HERE?' I exclaimed in surprise.
His request seemed mad because there wasn't a house within five hundred yards and it was still raining heavily.
But I slowed down, as anyone would in my place.
The next thing that happened was that something hit me terribly hard on the back of the head.
I fell forwards on the wheel and lost consciousness.
I can remember vaguely being pulled out of the car.
When I came to, I was lying in the ditch with a bad headache.
The rain was pouring down on me, there was no car in sight and my pockets, as I discovered later, were empty.
It was difficult for me to move, but I made an effort and rose to my feet.
Somehow I managed to walk to Bardfield.
I went straight to the police station.
There I reported that I had been robbed.
I said that someone had stolen my car, a gold watch and a wallet with two hundred pounds in it.
Of course, as soon as I got to the police station, I remembered who my fellow-traveler was.
His picture was on the wall outside.
I had seen it every day for a week.
That's why his face reminded me of Bardfield.
The inscription under the picture said:
'Wanted for robbery with violence and attempted murder. John-
-' 'Oh, dear! I've forgotten the name again.
But that's the man.
There's no doubt about it.
I never forget a face -just as I said.