Greek and Roman myths and legends are an essential part of our cultural heritage.
They are known all over the world and for centuries have been an inexhaustible source of inspiration for writers, poets, artists, sculptors and composers.
Planets, stars, minerals, chemical elements have been named after ancient gods and heroes.
In Greek, Italian, Russian, English, French, Spanish and many other languages there are a lot of popular phrases that came from Greek and Roman mythology.
When reading prose and poetry, we come across the names of mythological characters and creatures.
Ancient myths and legends tell how the world was created.
They describe wars between kings and queens, and adventures of gods and goddesses.
They praise the courage and heroism of warriors and the beauty of women.
This is what the myth of the creation of the world and man says.
In the beginning there was Chaos.
There existed neither Earth nor Sky.
There were neither plants nor living beings.
Then some Almighty Spirit brought order out of this confusion and the world as we know it came into being.
Trees, grass and flowers began to grow.
Fish swam in rivers, lakes and seas.
Birds sang in the trees.
Creatures of various shapes and sizes ran, crawled and jumped in forests and plains and climbed hills and mountains.
The world was inhabited by Titans, strong and beautiful giants, and by Cyclopes, ugly creatures with only one eye, set in the middle of the forehead.
The strongest Titan was Cronus.
Cronus swallowed his children as he was afraid they would deprive him of his power.
Cronus's wife deceived her husband and saved one of their sons, Zeus.
She hid him on a far off island and didn't allow him to leave it.
When Zeus grew up, he made his cruel father return his brothers and sisters.
Zeus made Cronus drink wine mixed with a drug.
Cronus got sick and he threw Zeus's brothers and sisters out of his gigantic stomach.
Zeus and his brothers and sisters ran away and settled on Mount Olympus. They started calling themselves Gods and Goddesses.
Cronus decided to take revenge and punish his disobedient children.
The rest of the Titans supported him.
The Titans declared war on the Gods.
The war between the Gods and the Titans lasted ten years.
The Titans built a huge mountain which was almost as high as Olympus, and the Gods could neither reach them nor make them come down.
At last with the help of the Cyclopes the Gods won a victory over the Titans.
The Cyclopes forged a powerful weapon and the Gods threw it at the mountain built by the Titans.
The mountain fell apart and carried the Titans down into the Tartar (the Underworld).
After the defeat of the Titans (the fall of the Titans, as it is usually called) Zeus became king of heaven and earth.
Two of the Titans did not fall down - Atlas and Prometheus.
Atlas was condemned to forever carrying the globe on his shoulders but Prometheus was forgiven.
According to the legend it was Prometheus who created man.
He made man from clay.
Prometheus gave man fire, which he stole from Oiympus.
He taught man a lot of useful things - writing, reading, mathematics, astronomy and various crafts.
At the same time he deprived man of foresight, which the human race had possessed at first so that the knowledge of the future might not discourage people and break their hearts.
Fire and knowledge changed the life of man completely.
Man became superior to beasts and almost equal to Gods.
When Zeus discovered that man had fire, he got furious.
He guessed at once who the thief was.
Zeus was cruel and merciless, and the punishment was severe.
Prometheus was chained to a rock high up in the mountains and an eagle was sent to gnaw at his liver.
The eagle came in the daytime but during the night the liver grew back, and Prometheus's suffering was endless.
He did not die because like Gods he was immortal.
Zeus promised to pardon Prometheus and set him free if he told him about things to come, as Prometheus could foresee the future, but Prometheus refused to do it.
Prometheus bore his torture with unbelievable fortitude.
He never regretted that he had helped man.
Finally, after long centuries of suffering, Prometheus was set free by Heracles, the most famous and popular of all the Greek heroes.
Heracles climbed the mountain, shot the horrible vulture and broke the chains.
In this way he paid mankind's debt to its courageous and heroic champion.
Zeus did not want the mortals to live a carefree life as if they were Gods.
He thought of a sure way to torture human beings he ordered Gods to create woman.
Woman was to bring misery and evil to earth.
The name of the first woman was Pandora.
Pandora was given a sealed box which contained all kinds of miseries: diseases, suffering, sorrows, quarrels, despair.
Pandora was told not to open the box, but she was curious and did not obey the order.
She opened the box and let out all the miseries.
Zeus achieved his aim: people have never been completely happy since.
Even if nothing is wrong at the moment, they are always afraid that something bad may happen to them.